Let's start our exploration of
user-defined functions
by creating
and then running a
very simple function.
The first thing we need to do
is define our function.
When we define a function,
we basically tell
Python that it exists.
The def keyword is
needed for this.
def is placed before
a function name to
define a function.
Let's create a function that
greets employees
after they log in.
First, we'll comment
on what we want to
do with this code.
We want to define a function.
Now, we'll go to a new line and
use the keyword def
to name our function.
We'll call it greet_employee.
Let's look at this syntax
a little more closely.
After our keyword def and
the function name, we
place parentheses.
Later, we'll explore adding
information inside
the parentheses,
but for this simple function,
we don't need to add anything.
Also, just like we did with
conditional and
iterative statements,
we add a colon at the
end of this header.
After the colon,
we'll indicate what
the function will do.
In our case, we
want the function
to output a message once
the employee logs in.
So let's continue
creating our function
and tell Python to
print this string.
This line is indented because
it's part of this function.
So what happens if
we run this code?
Does it print our
message? Let's try this.
It doesn't.
That's because you also have
to call your function.
You may not realize it,
but you already have
experience calling functions.
Print is a built-in function
that we've called many times.
So to call greet_employee,
we'll do something similar.
Let's go with a new line.
We'll add another comment
because now our purpose
is to call our function.
And then, we'll call the
greet_employee function.
We'll run it again.
This time it printed
our welcome message.
Great work! We've now defined
and called a function.
This was a simple function.
We're going to learn
something next that
will add to the complexity
of the functions you write.